### Modelling Sparkify Application Data with Postgres

#### Introduction
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

#### Data

###### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

###### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

#### Project Scope
Using the song and log datasets, build the ETL pipeline using Python that extracts the information from JSON logs, loads it into a Postgres database with appropriate data types. The database should contain star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis using the facts and dimension tables.

###### Fact Table

songplays -> Records in log data associated with song plays

###### Dimension Tables

users -> User using the app

songs -> Songs from the Sparkify App

artists -> Song artists

time -> Songplay timestamps 

#### Code Organization 
The code includes the relavant files to complete all project related tasks.

create_tables.py - Executes the sql_queries module to drop and create fact and dimension tables as well Sparkify Database. Please run this script before every step to avoid data conflicts or duplication.

etl.ipynb - Used for exploratory analysis for the ETL workflow, it reads the single record from song an log data.

test.ipynb - The queries to verify the data loaded in the database.

sql_queries.py - Contains the SQL statements to insert / select / drop and create tables.

etl.py - The python script that crawls through json files, parses the data and insert into postgres with appropiate data types.

README.md - Project description 

#### References - Introduction section and dataset descriptions have been referred from udacity project sections.

https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd027/parts/f7dbb125-87a2-4369-bb64-dc5c21bb668a/modules/c0e48224-f2d0-4bf5-ac02-3e1493e530fc/lessons/01995bb4-db30-4e01-bf38-ff11b631be0f/concepts/7a6e1e47-cb4f-4e98-be3f-02d71fbd82f6
